Database connectivite

to work with database java introduced a new package by name java.sql this package
contents 4 sub classes c
1.connection
2.statement
3.driver manager
4. resultset

1. connection class
this class is used to establish the connection between java and database this object stores 
the address of database. 

2.Statement
its used to store and excute sql statement's to excute a sql statement we ahve 3 mehtods
1.excute
1. excuteupdate():
2. excuteQuery
3.

1.excute
to excute any type of sql statements 

2. excuteupdate():
excute update its used to excute updateable statements like insert delete and update

2. excuteQuery
its used to excute the queryable statements like select when we run this method it will retrive the data from database  and stroe in result side 

4.resultset
its used to store outof a query and we can retrive the data by using RS.next method which will extrat the data row by row we can retrive colum data by using get methods 


to work with jsp we need to install following softwares 
1. JDK 1.8
2. tomcat 9.0
3. wamp  for database creation 
4. msql connectormy
mysql connector will be placed in the following directory c: /programfiles/Apachesoftwarefoundation/tomacte
in this copy the mysql connector i following folders bin, conf , and lib 

2 option we can download the latest version of XAmpp in which tomate is inbuilt in the same folders mysql connector will be placed in Xampp tomacte folder
writing and exuting jsp programs 
1. create a folder in c://programfiles/Apachesoftwarefoundation/tomacte/webapps/root
create your folder and right cick on the folder select properties click on security tab ,click on edite button it opens a new window select user account 
below that the it will show the permission click on full control first option the click on ok

note: if your folder is not opening in sercurty window their is option by advance click on it and enable inherentance 


writing and excuting JSP programs we can write JSP program in any of the editors and the file will be saved with a doint jsp as a extstion files muct be stored in root out folder 
jsp is a script based programing language everything is written in between <%  %> following are the some the main scripting tags of jsp 
1. script <% %>
2. declaration use  to declare global variables or public varibles 
3. directive <%@ %> its used to call packages 
4. <%= %> its used to display the output it a replacement for out.println


builtin object to make jsp simple and fast all the objet are ready made and fast to use and excute following are the some of the inbuild objects of jsp 
1.request: this object is used to read the data from HTML pages with help of get paramater method 
2. out its a object of print writer class its used to display the output wiht a help of println method
3.respones : its used to send the data out 

write a jsp programm to display hello 

database connectivition

Tables
Staff id,name,dept,email
BOOK isbn no, book title, book name, author
product detials productid, productname, category, price
cityinfo cityid, city name, state , education support, popoular for



REAding data form data base
